
Features
********

The Cyrus IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) server provides
access to personal mail, system-wide bulletin boards, news-feeds,
calendar and contacts through the IMAP, NNTP, CalDAV and CardDAV
protocols. The Cyrus IMAP server is a scalable enterprise groupware
system designed for use from small to large enterprise environments
using technologies based on well-established Open Standards.

A full Cyrus IMAP implementation allows a seamless mail and bulletin
board environment to be set up across one or more nodes. It differs
from other IMAP server implementations in that it is run on *sealed
nodes*, where users are not normally permitted to log in. The mailbox
database is stored in parts of the filesystem that are private to the
Cyrus IMAP system. All user access to mail is through software using
the IMAP, IMAPS, POP3, POP3S, KPOP, CalDAV and/or CardDAV protocols.

The private mailbox database design gives the Cyrus IMAP server large
advantages in efficiency, scalability, and administrability. Multiple
concurrent read/write connections to the same mailbox are permitted.
The server supports access control lists on mailboxes and storage
quotas on mailbox hierarchies.

Cyrus IMAP provisionally supports the emerging JMAP protocol
standards, when built for such.

The following documents show the full power of each feature that is
included with Cyrus IMAP.

Exceptions notwithstanding, most of this documentation does not
involve the RFCs Supported by Cyrus IMAP.


Security and Authentication
===========================

* Kerberos Authentication

* LDAP Authentication

* SQL Authentication

* Access Control

* Sealed System Design


Mailbox Management
==================

* Automatic Creation of Mailboxes

* Mailbox Namespaces

* Virtual Domains

* Mailbox Annotations (METADATA)

* Mailbox Distribution


Message Management
==================

* Delayed Delete

* Delayed Expunge

* Message Annotations (METADATA)

* Duplicate Message Delivery Suppression

* Shared Seen State

* Server Side Filtering (Sieve)

* Event Notifications


Calendar and Contact (DAV) Collection Management
================================================

* CalDAV Collections

* DAV Components

* DAV Collection Management

* CardDAV Support


Storage
=======

* Mail Spool Partitions

* Mailbox Metadata Partitions

* Archiving

* Quota

* Single-Instance Store


Load Management
===============

* Cyrus IMAP Murder (Server Aggregation)
